Observations

1. The most significant number of attritted employees are from the lowest salary bracket which is 0k-5K.

2. The job positions that faced the highest attrition are Laboratory Technician, Sales Executive, Research Scientist and Sales Representative.
Three of the mentioned job positions i.e. Laboratory Technician, Research Scientist, Sales Representative have average monthly incomes that lie in the lowest salary bracket.

3. Age groups of 18-25, 26-35, 36-45 of all five age groups faced highest attrition and all the mentioned have the lowest of average monthly income. 
In addition average monthly incomes of age groups 18-25 and 26-35 lie in the lowest salary bracket which is up to 5K.

4. A pattern from the data is found that shows an inverse proportional relation between salary hike percentage and attrition count. Employees having lowest percentage of salary hike has the highest contribution in attrition and employees having highest percentage of salary hike has least contribution in attrition.

5. Approx. 65% of attritted employees have 0 stock availability and approx. 24% of employees have stock availability of level 1.
It shows approx. 89% of total attritted employees have very low or no stock availability.

6. An interesting pattern is seen that employees that previously worked with only one company have highest contribution in attrition i.e. approximately 41% followed by employees that have no experience or had not worked with any companies with a contribution approx. 10%. Then it settles down to 5%-7% with increase of experience in multiple number of companies. So almost 51% of attritted employees have experience with 1 or no companies.
From the current employees in the company approx. 35% of employees have experience with only one company and approx. 13% of employees have not worked with any companies. So almost 48% of the employees belong to the highest contributing category in attrition in terms of experience.
 


Final Verdicts

1. Low salary of employees leads to attrition in significant numbers from different job roles and from different age groups. (From observation: 1, 2, 3)

2. Low salary hike is one of the reasons for attrition. (From observation: 4)

3. Very low or no stock availability is a probable cause to consider for attrition. (From observation: 5)

4. Lack of experience or wish to gain experience from multiple companies can be a probable cause of attrition. (From observation: 6)
